feat: improvements on glossary a11y (#34095)
mdn/content: files/en-us/glossary/accessibility/index.md

{{GlossarySidebar}}

> **Accessibility** (**A11y**) means enabling as many people as possible to use websites, even when those people's abilities are limited in some way. The most common way to achieve this is to make sure assistive technologies works properly to access the content. This includes {{glossary("screen reader", "screen readers")}}, screen magnifiers, speech recognition tools, alternative input devices, and other assistive technologies. Web accessibility is formally defined and discussed at the {{Glossary("W3C")}} through the {{Glossary("WAI", "Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)")}}.
> 
> Accessibility can be inspected or measured by tools like [Lighthouse Accessibility score](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/lighthouse/accessibility/scoring) and [Firefox Accessibility Inspector](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/devtools-user/accessibility_inspector/index.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Accessibility** (**A11y**) means enabling as many people as possible to use websites, even when those people's abilities are limited in some way. The most common way to achieve this is by ensuring that assistive technologies work properly to access the content. These technologies include {{glossary("screen reader", "screen readers")}}, screen magnifiers, speech recognition tools, and alternative input devices.

You can measure the accessibility of your website by using tools like [Lighthouse](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/lighthouse/accessibility/scoring) and the [Firefox Accessibility Inspector](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/devtools-user/accessibility_inspector/index.html).

Web accessibility is formally defined and discussed at the {{Glossary("W3C")}} through the {{Glossary("WAI", "Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)")}}.
```

Author: Here we have added some more detail on the usages of such tech, to help readers understand, "ah, it turns out that this is kinda accessbility implementaion!"

## See also

- [Accessibility](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility)
- [Learn accessibility](/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility)
- [ARIA](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA)
- [Web accessibility](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_accessibility) on Wikipedia
- [The W3C Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/)

> - [Accessible Rich Internet Applications (WAI-ARIA)](https://w3c.github.io/aria/)

Author: put WAI and WAI-ARIA together, given they are in the order of

- WAI, the organization
- WAI-ARIA, the spec put forward by the org

{{GlossarySidebar}}

> **Accessibility** (**A11y**) means enabling as many people as possible to use websites, even when those people's abilities are limited in some way. The most common way to achieve this is by ensuring that assistive technologies work properly to access the content. These technologies include {{glossary("screen reader", "screen readers")}}, screen magnifiers, speech recognition tools, and alternative input devices.

Reviewer: This can probably be improved further
```suggestion
**Accessibility** (**A11y**) means enabling as many people as possible to use websites, including those with limited abilities. The most common way to achieve this is by ensuring that assistive technologies work properly to access the content. These technologies include {{glossary("screen reader", "screen readers")}}, screen magnifiers, speech recognition tools, and alternative input devices.
```

You can measure the accessibility of your website by using tools like [Lighthouse](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/lighthouse/accessibility/scoring) and the [Firefox Accessibility Inspector](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/devtools-user/accessibility_inspector/index.html).

Web accessibility is formally defined and discussed at the {{Glossary("W3C")}} through the {{Glossary("WAI", "Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)")}}.

## See also

- [Accessibility](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility)
- [Learn accessibility](/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility)
- [ARIA](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA)
- [Web accessibility](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_accessibility) on Wikipedia

> - [The W3C Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/)

Reviewer: This can be applied to the other two pages as well
```suggestion
- [The Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/) on W3C
```

> - [Accessible Rich Internet Applications (WAI-ARIA)](https://w3c.github.io/aria/)

Reviewer: This can be applied to the other two pages as well
```suggestion
- [Accessible Rich Internet Applications (WAI-ARIA)](https://w3c.github.io/aria/) specification
```

- [Web Accessibility In Mind](https://webaim.org/)

> - [Glossary](/en-US/docs/Glossary)

Reviewer: I noticed a different style has been adopted here: https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/33423#discussion_r1590843688, and I understand you might have already implemented it on many pages, so I won't ask you to revert it.

However, to keep the list (and the page length) contained, I would have formatted this as (no link on Glossary):

For one term in in the list:
- Related glossary terms: <term 1 link>

For multiple terms:
- Related glossary terms: <term 1 link>, <term 2 link>

Reviewer 2: FWIW I would have personally gone with

- <term 1 link>
- <term 2 link>

Without any extra text, per see also guidelines, but I have no feelings towards any of them.

Author: FYI, i have been translated pages under glossary folder for some time (processed about **300-350** files and PRs), and find that in most cases they are arranged in that style, and with suggestion from @bsmth, using the style of the most common case but without a link, i.e.

```markdown
- Glossary
  - a.
  - b.
```

  - {{Glossary("ARIA")}}
  - {{Glossary("Screen reader")}}
  - {{Glossary("Accessibility tree")}}

>   - {{Glossary("Accessibility description")}}
>   - {{Glossary("Accessibility name")}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - {{Glossary("Accessible description")}}
  - {{Glossary("Accessible name")}}
```

Author: sorry for my typo! it's till now do I realize the difference

{{GlossarySidebar}}

> **Accessibility** (often abbreviated to **A11y** — as in, "a", then 11 characters, and then "y") in web development means enabling as many people as possible to use websites, even when those people's abilities are limited in some way. Web accessibility is formally defined and discussed at the {{Glossary("W3C")}} through the {{Glossary("WAI", "Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)")}}.

Reviewer 3: Fly-by comment (meaning I choose not to arbitrate on this), but the format `(**A11Y**)` is a very well understood way of indicating contraction/short form of a word. I find "(often abbreviated to **A11y** — as in, "a", then 11 characters, and then "y")" as verbose with no added value.

Author: many entries contains these abbreviations descriptions. this above was just copied from Web/Accessibility lol.

i totally agree with your point. l18n, l10n, ... this is a pretty common abbr way in computer science. maybe we can also remove Web/Accessibility's one.

<img width="779" alt="Screenshot 2024-06-14 at 11 06 02 AM" src="https://github.com/mdn/content/assets/41184947/1282a0b2-9b9c-4ce3-b334-096fdd4cecff">

Reviewer: I would argue that it might be a good thing to keep the verbose derivation of A11y in the Glossary for absolute beginners to web development. We can consider removing it from the [Web/Accessibility](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility) page.
